docs: new contribution guidelines (#4163)
tari-project/tari: Contributing.md

  launch. 
* The [Feature RFC process](#feature-rfc-process) describes how new features get into Tari, from conception 
  to implementation.
* [Pull requests](#pull-requests). This section offers guidelines on how to get your code merged into the code base 
  with the minimum of fuss. 
* [Code reviews](#code-reviews) are integral to keeping the code secure and performant. This section 
  offers tips for effective preventing bugs from scuttling past your gimlet gaze. 
* Bug bounty and disclosure policy.

# The Tari release process

The Tari release process draws inspiration from the Rust [compiler release process] and borrows some of its key 
ideas.

The process is well-suited for a large open-source project that desires a regular release schedule but also needs 
the flexibility of having features being "in development" over several cycles.

## Release branches

Post mainnet, there are 4 release branches in the Tari repo:

* `mainnet` - the code on this branch represents the latest "official release". Almost every commit on this branch 
  will be tagged with a version number.

> * `development` - this is the cuttingest-of-edge branch. Almost all new code comes in via the `development` branch.

Reviewer: It's not clear which testnet this relates to in the next section. From the ordering it looks like `stagenet`, but it's probably likely to be `dibbler`

Author: Neither, in fact.

Maybe I'll add a table mapping branches to networks

Reviewer 2: It is also not clear/discussed/referenced in this paragraph how code in `development` is migrated onto other branches.
- `dibbler` [with feature gates] (cherry picked only?) moves to `nextnet` moves to `mainnet`
- `development` [with feature gates] (cherry picked only?) moves to `dibbler` only or to `nextnet` as well?

Author: This is discussed later.

other branches from time to time. These changes will then be cherry-picked into the other branches to keep 
the code base consistent.

## Testnets

There will also be three testnets in addition to mainnet:

* `mainnet` - the "real-money" network.
* `stagenet` - a testnet version of mainnet. Nodes on stagenet should all be running code built from the `mainnet`
  branch to replicate mainnet as close as possible. The base node version on `stagenet` will always match
  the latest `mainnet` release. Network resets (i.e. a new genesis block) should be very rare.
* `nextnet` - nodes on nextnet should be running code compiled from the `nextnet` branch. This is the last chance to
  battle-test new features before they hit mainnet. Network resets should be somewhat rare.
* `dibbler` - The dibbler network is the most experimental of the testnets. Things can break here. We hope they 
  won't, obviously, but the dibbler network is where we should be catching any and all major issues _before_ 
  the feature heads to nextnet. Nodes should be running code built from the `dibbler` branch. Network resets could 

>   occur fairly frequently, perhaps several times a year.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  occur fairly frequently, perhaps several times a year.
  * `localnet` - While not strictly a testnet, this is the default testnet used when compiling and running the `development` branch. 
```

## Feature flags

When developing a new feature in Tari, it will initially be placed behind a feature flag -- similar to how Rust 
nightly features are gated. This offers the comfort and flexibility that should a feature not be ready in the first 
6-8 months of development (i.e. by the time it first hits the `mainnet` branch), it will not be active on the 
mainnet, since the feature will not be active.

The name of the feature flag is assigned in the tracking issue 

> of the RFC that describes the feature. Once the feature is complete and ready for testing, it can be enabled in the 

Reviewer: Given all the branches, it is probably going to be worth splitting RFC's into their own repo, otherwise the related RFC might be in a different branch to the feature being implemented

Author: Possibly.

Reviewer 2: Will each feature be preceded by some portion of an RFC or collection of RFCs? If so we could always have the RFC(s) debated and merged into development before work on the feature starts.

In any case, I think we would need a working document in development that lists and describes all features being worked on and precedes actual commitments on any specific feature.

Author: For the most part, there will be a mapping of feature to RFC. 
The idea being that if an idea is big enough to warrant an RFC, it's big enough to earn a feature gate. Nothing stops us putting multiple RFCs behind one feature gate though.

next release of `dibbler`. A feature can be tested on the `dibbler` testnet for as long as necessary. Even though the 
code for this feature will be included in the following `nextnet` release, the feature will not be active. 
Once the community feels that the feature is ready for mainnet, it will be activated on `nextnet`. This gives us 
another 2 months of testing in an environment that is reasonably close to what might be expected on mainnet. 

As the next release approaches, the community will decide whether to "stabilise" the feature, i.e. remove the 
feature gate. The feature will then be live on mainnet with the next release. If the feature is not 
stabilised, it remains in testing for another cycle.

Notice that stabilising involves removing the feature gate entirely so that the code is included by default. Put 
another way, the code running on `mainnet` is always the code that compiles with the default set of features.  

## Versioning

The release period is **TWO MONTHS**.

At every release period, 

> * the HEAD of `development` becomes `dibbler`.

Reviewer: Is there a set point in time where features on dibbler are enabled/disabled, or can that happen at any time in between release periods?

Author: They can be activated any time (in `development`), but `dibbler`'s code is only updated at release cycle boundaries, so that's basically when they go 'live' on dibbler.

* the HEAD of `dibbler`  becomes `nextnet`. Any features that are in the stabilisation cycle are activated.
* Otherwise, all in-development features on `dibbler` remain behind feature gates. 
* the HEAD of `nextnet` becomes `mainnet`. A new version is tagged and this becomes the next mainnet release.

> The versioning roughly follows semver semantics:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The versioning roughly follows [semver semantics](https://semver.org/):
```

months to upgrade their software.
* However, sometimes Monero forks happen in under 2 months, so there may be occasional “quick releases” where we 
  execute a release cycle outside the usual cadence.

[compiler release process]: https://internals.rust-lang.org/t/release-channels-git-branching-and-the-release-process/1940

## Deployment tools

The release process is somewhat complex. There are a set of bots that help manage and automate this process.

_The dev community is currently evaluating bots to employ for this purpose_.

* TBD - release management bot
* TBC - binary release / CD bot

## Feature RFC process

Standard issue management is used for bug fixes, performance improvements, and technical debt repayments. Larger
features, and substantial changes to how Tari works get implemented via the RFC process.

A very rough outline of the flow goes as follows:

- Someone has an idea for an improvement or feature.
- They bring it up and discuss it with the community in the [Discord] #dev channel.
- Someone --usually the leading proponent-- writes up a detailed specification of the proposal as an RFC and submits it 
  as a PR to this repo.

> - The community reviews and comments on the RFC. At this stage, a number for the RFC will be assigned.

Reviewer 3: On some big projects at this point we would have something like a "accepted status" of the RFC. Do you think this could be interesting here?

Author: This is essentially what WIP status is. Happy to change the name to "Accepted" if there's support for this.

![deprecated](./RFC/src/theme/images/status-deprecated.svg) and move it to the _Deprecated_ chapter of the RFC handbook.

The source code must ultimately be the source of truth for the Tari implementation.
If the code and RFC have deviated substantially, mark it ![out of date](./RFC/src/theme/images/status-outofdate.svg).
Then file an issue asking someone to kindly update the RFC and bring it back in line with the code.

Taking on this thankless task is an excellent way for new contributors to learn the code base and quickly add value 
to the project!

[Discord]: https://discord.gg/q3Sfzb8S2V

## Pull requests

You're submitting your first, or hundredth, PR to the Tari codebase. Congratulations! The core team could really use 
the help. But they also need to be super careful since after mainnet launch, the Tari code is managing real money. 

It's therefore typical and even expected for Pull Requests to undergo several revisions before being merged. You 
can expect (constructive) feedback and suggestions for improvements that will typically reflect the ideas espoused 
in the following set of guidelines.

### PRs do one job
[do one job]: #prs-do-one-job

> This is really important. A single PR needs to address a single thing. This is Congress, where bills have 

Reviewer: did you perhaps mean "not Congress"?
```suggestion
This is really important. A single PR needs to address a single thing. This is not Congress, where bills have 
```

requirement. See the [license check script] for the complete list of extensions that are ignored for this check.

The following text is recommended:

```text
// Copyright 2022 The Tari Project
// SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause
```

You can run the [license check script] to help identify any files that are missing 
license info.

[license check script]: ./scripts/file_license_check.sh

## Formatting

PRs are checked for formatting using the command:

```
cargo fmt --all -- --check
```

If your tests fail here, simply run

```
cargo fmt --all
```

If this does not work:

* Is rust fmt installed? `rustup component add rustfmt` 
* It is installed, but the check still fails? Check that your rust version matches the one in our CI toolchain. You 
  can inspect this in the `env.toolchain` field in the [Github Action CI workflow](.github/workflows/ci.yml)

# Code style

Tari uses Clippy to encourage consistent and idiomatic Rust code.

Clippy does not support project-wide Clippy configuration files at the moment. Tari uses `cargo-lints` instead and 
defines global linting rules in `lints.toml`.

The CI enforces these lints, so check your code with:

```

> cargo lint clippy --all-targets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cargo lint clippy --all-targets --all-features
```

Reviewer 3: I think it's should be `lints` instead of `lint`, no?

```suggestion
cargo lints clippy --all-targets --all-features
```

Reviewer: Correct!

Author: That's not what currently runs in CI. I'm happy to add the `--all-features` flag, but we must update the CI to reflect this.

Reviewer: Added in #4165

```

**Note:** 
Generally, you should not put explicit crate level `deny` attributes in the code, and prefer to put them 

> in the `lints.toml`. You SHOULD however, put crate level `allow` attributes, so that developers running `cargo clippy` 

Reviewer: :+1:

The process is well-suited for a large open-source project that desires a regular release schedule but also needs 
the flexibility of having features being "in development" over several cycles.

## Release branches

Post mainnet, there are 4 release branches in the Tari repo:

* `mainnet` - the code on this branch represents the latest "official release". Almost every commit on this branch 
  will be tagged with a version number.
* `development` - this is the cuttingest-of-edge branch. Almost all new code comes in via the `development` branch.
* `nextnet` - the code on this branch will become the `mainnet` branch on the next release. Feature code from 
  `dibbler` will be present here, but if they are not yet ready for release, they will be disabled behind a feature 
  gate.
* `dibbler` - this branch contains experimental features that might not work, be rigorously tested, or even break 
  consensus if the code were to run on mainnet.

Almost all new code enters the codebase via the `development` branch. Hotfixes and urgent updates can be made on 
other branches from time to time. These changes will then be cherry-picked into the other branches to keep 
the code base consistent.

> ## Testnets

Reviewer 4: Who's running all the testnets?

Sounds like dibbler for the most part would be core developers. stagenet might be for people testing things out. But what's the incentive for someone to run a nextnet node, or would this just be a network we're mostly hosting?

Author: Tari Labs would run a bunch of nodes on each testnet to keep them going

There will also be three testnets in addition to mainnet:

* `mainnet` - the "real-money" network.
* `stagenet` - a testnet version of mainnet. Nodes on stagenet should all be running code built from the `mainnet`
  branch to replicate mainnet as close as possible. The base node version on `stagenet` will always match
  the latest `mainnet` release. Network resets (i.e. a new genesis block) should be very rare.
* `nextnet` - nodes on nextnet should be running code compiled from the `nextnet` branch. This is the last chance to
  battle-test new features before they hit mainnet. Network resets should be somewhat rare.

> * `dibbler` - The dibbler network is the most experimental of the testnets. Things can break here. We hope they 

Reviewer 4: > Things can break here

Does this mean fixes are brought into development, and then cherry picked into dibbler before dibbler HEAD becomes nextnet?

Reviewer 4: Thinking about this more. If the answer is "yes" then we probably need extra flags for where certain PR's need to get merged. Or- potentially a single fix requires two PR's. One into development, one into dibbler/nextnet etc.

If we only merge into development someone has to know they now need to cherry-pick somewhere else. It creates work, and the possibility that work never happens. Once identified as a fix for a specific net, the requirement to open two PR's moves the actions back to the developer making the fix, and CI/Bots to take care of the merging etc.

Author: The code will migrate to nextnet. But it won't be active until the feature it is gated behind is stabilised.

Author: Some PRs are bug fixes, or don't break consensus, or are otherwise too small to necessitate a feature gate. These PRs will get merged into development, and migrate to mainnet over the next 3 releases.

Other PRs that will need to be behind a gate from the point it's merged development.

  won't, obviously, but the dibbler network is where we should be catching any and all major issues _before_ 
  the feature heads to nextnet. Nodes should be running code built from the `dibbler` branch. Network resets could 
  occur fairly frequently, perhaps several times a year.
  * `localnet` - While not strictly a testnet, this is the default testnet used when compiling and running the `development` branch. 

## Feature flags

> When developing a new feature in Tari, it will initially be placed behind a feature flag -- similar to how Rust 

Reviewer 4: > similar to how Rust nightly features are gated.

I think it could be worth us pointing to an example of this. Sending people to look at how Rust does it vs how we do it feels like the wrong message. Having the example also sets the premise for ourselves, and the fact we should start doing it asap. For the record I've never actually looked at how rust does it, so at the code level I don't know what this looks like (until I go look later on).

I assume it can get quite complicated when introducing a feature set that also requires changes and refactoring across existing features or existing stable code.

Author: Fair point. It's not explicitly stated, but there is some work to be done to support this; so we couldn't start implementing this immediately.

Author: I wrote a [PoC](https://github.com/CjS77/rust-feature-gate) for how I think this would look. The README is a good example of the gates in action, I hope.

6-8 months of development (i.e. by the time it first hits the `mainnet` branch), it will not be active on the 
mainnet, since the feature will not be active.

The name of the feature flag is assigned in the tracking issue 
of the RFC that describes the feature. Once the feature is complete and ready for testing, it can be enabled in the 
next release of `dibbler`. A feature can be tested on the `dibbler` testnet for as long as necessary. Even though the 
code for this feature will be included in the following `nextnet` release, the feature will not be active. 
Once the community feels that the feature is ready for mainnet, it will be activated on `nextnet`. This gives us 
another 2 months of testing in an environment that is reasonably close to what might be expected on mainnet. 

As the next release approaches, the community will decide whether to "stabilise" the feature, i.e. remove the 
feature gate. The feature will then be live on mainnet with the next release. If the feature is not 
stabilised, it remains in testing for another cycle.

Notice that stabilising involves removing the feature gate entirely so that the code is included by default. Put 

> another way, the code running on `mainnet` is always the code that compiles with the default set of features.  

Reviewer 4: This is confusing when combined with the Versioning section.

> Hard-fork features MUST hit mainnet at least 2 months before the feature goes live. i.e., nodes and miners have 2 months to upgrade their software.

Maybe a special circumstance that needs listing? Hard-fork features will hit mainnet and remain feature gated until the hardfork occurs, removing the feature gate and stabalising the feature?

Author: Ok, I'll try and reword this so it's more clear.

_The dev community is currently evaluating bots to employ for this purpose_.

* TBD - release management bot
* TBC - binary release / CD bot

## Feature RFC process

Standard issue management is used for bug fixes, performance improvements, and technical debt repayments. Larger
features, and substantial changes to how Tari works get implemented via the RFC process.

A very rough outline of the flow goes as follows:

- Someone has an idea for an improvement or feature.
- They bring it up and discuss it with the community in the [Discord] #dev channel.
- Someone --usually the leading proponent-- writes up a detailed specification of the proposal as an RFC and submits it 
  as a PR to this repo.
- The community reviews and comments on the RFC. At this stage, a number for the RFC will be assigned.
- After several drafts and revisions, the PR gets merged, and the RFC enters
  ![draft status](./RFC/src/theme/images/status-draft.svg).
- At this point, the RFC can still undergo changes via PRs. The RFC remains in
  ![draft status](./RFC/src/theme/images/status-draft.svg), and the changes are logged in a _Change Log_  
  maintained at the bottom of the RFC.

> - If someone wants to implement the RFC, usually the RFC author -- but it needn't be -- he/she will create a tracking 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- If someone wants to implement the RFC, usually the RFC author -- but it needn't be -- they will create a tracking 
```

  issue for the RFC. The tracking issue collects all the conversations around the implementation of the RFC in one 
  place. The status RFC will then change to ![WIP status](./RFC/src/theme/images/status-wip.svg). A feature flag 
  name will be assigned to the feature at this stage.
- Development for this feature happens behind the feature flag, and PRs are submitted against the `development` branch.
- Once the implementation is complete and active on mainnet, the RFC status can then be changed to
  ![active status](./RFC/src/theme/images/status-active.svg).
- The RFC should be updated to match the implementation. The changes must be summarised in the Change Log. Once the 
  feature is stabilised and is live on mainnet, the status can be updated to
  ![stable status](./RFC/src/theme/images/status-stable.svg).

> If an RFC ever becomes redundant, DO NOT delete it. Mark the RFC as 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If an RFC ever becomes redundant, it is not deleted. Mark the RFC as 
```

Author: Going to stick with original.

![deprecated](./RFC/src/theme/images/status-deprecated.svg) and move it to the _Deprecated_ chapter of the RFC handbook.

The source code must ultimately be the source of truth for the Tari implementation.
If the code and RFC have deviated substantially, mark it ![out of date](./RFC/src/theme/images/status-outofdate.svg).

> Then file an issue asking someone to kindly update the RFC and bring it back in line with the code.

Reviewer 4: I think the bounds here are very vague. If another feature with a separate RFC begins to make changes to implementations of a previous RFC and feature to support itself this has blurry lines. The old RFC isn't deprecated because the new one doesn't express a replacement nor full feature set of the old one, but to completely expand the old one to support the additions required by the new one creates a lot of redundant information.

I've always considered an RFC to be more like a snapshot in time. This was the process and thinking to achieve this work and as of it becoming stable the RFC is completely up to date. Anything that happens after stable is no longer relevant to the original RFC. This could just be me though. Does rust maintain *all* its RFC's as new features develop?

Reviewer 2: Agreed, the process as described here is one I do not particularly like. All it does is motivate feature code changes without keeping the documentation up to date or implementing unagreed features. Either we need a proposal to be documented and accepted by the community, then implemented as closely as possible as was proposed in the RFC, updating and re-accepting the RFC if divergent thinking surface, ever reviewing the feature implementation against the RFC, or we do not.

Author: I'm taking the pragmatic view and accept that documentation (_especially_ now that these docs are out of sight, out of mind in a separate repo) are not going to be kept up to date.

I'm not talking about rewrites of code. I'm talking about bug fix here, a small change there. After several dozens of these, the RFC may not represent the reality of the code all that well. But there has not been a clear shift in strategy. The intent is still the same, but several implementation details are different. 
What do we do then?

Reviewer 2: Well, agreed, if RFC's are mostly going to play catch-up, then this is a good approach.

Author: I forgot to mention that RFCs have a Change Log section that is meant to capture these changes.

the help. But they also need to be super careful since after mainnet launch, the Tari code is managing real money. 

It's therefore typical and even expected for Pull Requests to undergo several revisions before being merged. You 
can expect (constructive) feedback and suggestions for improvements that will typically reflect the ideas espoused 
in the following set of guidelines.

### PRs do one job
[do one job]: #prs-do-one-job

This is really important. A single PR needs to address a single thing. This is not Congress, where bills have 
dozens of unrelated things wadded into them in the hope that they're more likely to sneak through with the main 
proposal.

Keeping PRs focused on one thing has many benefits:
- It keeps PRs [small](#prs-are-small).
- It maintains focus. It would suck if an entire PR was blocked from being merged because some other unrelated 
  change was causing an issue.

If a PR tries too much multi-tasking, it will likely be labelled `CR-one_job` and parked. The solution is 
simple: Break the PR up into 2 or more PRs, each addressing a single issue. Mention in the git comments that you 
have done this.

### PRs are small

> PRs should be under 400 lines long. 

Reviewer 4: When we talk about 400 lines are we specifically talking about additions? So I could have 400 new or changed lines of code, but also 1200 removed lines?

Author: Yes, Additions basically.

FWIW I find `+400, -400` more difficult to review than `+900 -0` myself. YMMV

Unit tests do not count towards this line count.

> Documentation and RFCs do not contribute to line count. However, RFC PRs should generally not have any code in the 
> at all (since PRs [do one job]). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Documentation and RFCs do not contribute to line count. However, RFC PRs should generally not have any code in it 
at all (since PRs [do one job]). 
```

### Use git messages liberally

Before submitting your PR for the first time, use `git rebase` as described in [git commit farming] to edit and 
clean up your commit messages. The messages should supplement the documentation in the code, not just repeat it. 
This contains the meta-information; _why_ you are making a change, rather than _what_ it does.

For example, a lousy commit message is:

```text
Refactor signature check
```

We can see that you've changed the signature check code! But we don't know why. 

A better message is

```text
The signature check was checking each signature in the block independently. So for n signatures, the time-scaled by
O(n).
We can optimise this check by making use of an aggregated signature check, as described by 
[Alice and Bob](https://y.at/yat.coin). This was codified and included in tari_crypto PR #1234.
Changing the signature check to use this improved overall block validation times by 65% (see benchmarks in the
next commit). 

All tests still pass but could improve coverage by adding additional tests with large numbers of 
signatures (TODO - not in this PR)
```

> You may find that a reviewer tags your PR with `CR-insufficient_context`. He is asking you to add 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You may find that a reviewer tags your PR with `CR-insufficient_context`. They are asking you to add 
```

additional context for the change. This can be submitted by tidying up and expanding your git commit messages, the 
PR description, or both.

The commit messages are combined to form the Pull Request's narrative when the PR is merged.
Ideally, if someone reads the `git log` for your PR, they'll have a clear picture of why and how the changes were 
introduced.

## Code reviews

Post mainnet, PRs require 3 or more positive reviews from previous contributors, including at least one positive review 
from a contributor with write access to the repo.

When reviewing PRs, here are some guidelines and suggestions to help maintain the safety and quality of code:

* PULL the code and review and test it locally on your machine.
* Do not spend more than 1 hour reviewing a PR at a time. 
* Do not review more than 400 LOC in an hour.

If either of these guidelines cannot be met, you may label the PR `CR-too_long` and politely ask the contributor to 

> revise their PR. Otherwise, take breaks and review the PR over multiple sessions or days.

Reviewer 2: It is unclear when _you may label the PR `CR-too_long`_, due to the _otherwise_ disclaimer. Which reviewer behavior will be motivated, or promoted?

Author: I'm leaving it to the discretion of the reviewer.

* Obviously, your main goal of the review is to 
  * find bugs,
  * identify edge cases that aren't handled properly,
  * ensure that the stated goal of functions (as per the docstrings and/or RFC) matches the code as written.

All **public** methods and functions must have a decent docstring.
If docstrings are missing, and the purpose of a function or method is not clear, then ask the contributor to  
provide it by tagging the PR with `CR-docs`.

* Read the commit messages! They give the context for the change and why (according to the author) they are required.

If there is insufficient justification in your view, or the git messages are too ["haaaands"y], then label the PR 
`CR-insufficient_context` and ask the author to address this.

If the PR tends to change things arbitrarily  because the "author likes it that way" (e.g. they change from _this_ 
crate to _that_ crate, or names of things get changed seemingly arbitrarily), we should be wary of merging the PR 
unless there are substantial performance, security, or readability reasons. This justification must be 

> provided in the commit messages. 

Reviewer 2: Great

If not, label the PR `CR-insufficient_justification`. If the author does not provide 
additional justification AND the other reviewers agree with your assessment, then this is grounds for rejecting 
and closing the PR.

There are also some non-goals for a code review:
* Do NOT make comments related to formatting or linting. If our linter doesn't care, neither should you. If the 
  linter doesn't like something, the CI tasks will catch it and fail the PR.
* You MAY make Clippy-like suggestions for making code cleaner, more Rust-y, or more readable. But be aware that we 
  _do_ run Clippy as part of the CI process and require all errors to be resolved.
* There should be decent test coverage, but 100% coverage is an ideal, not a requirement.

If PR doesn’t have 100% coverage or breaks something non-critical, we may still merge it at our discretion as long as
* Issues have been generated and triaged to cover the gaps.

> * The changes are behind a feature flag.

Reviewer 2: Are the reviewers tasked to make sure we approach the ideal 100% test coverage? Are we looking at some tools to help us? For example, if a quantitative test coverage number decrease by introducing the PR, it is a good indication that we added untested code.

Author: The idea is to nudge for full test coverage, but it is not a hard rule.

WRT tools, we are working towards getting the core tari repo onto coveralls so that code coverage is reported.

["haaaands"y]: https://xkcd.com/1296/

# Details

## PR labels

A reviewer may tag a PR with one or more labels during a review.

These labels indicate to the PR author and other reviewers,
* that *changes are required* to make reviewing the PR easier (`CR-*`)
* to *categorise* the PR, e.g. tests-only or consensus breaking. (`C-*`)
* where the PR is in the review process (`P-*`)

### Changes Requested (CR)

* `CR-too_long` - Your PR is too long. Follow [these tips](#prs-are-small) to resolve this and resubmit.
* `CR-one_job` - Your PR is not following the [do one job] rule. This should be 2 or more PRs.
* `CR-insufficient_context` - Your PRs commit messages don't provide enough context to justify accepting the
  change.
* `CR-insufficient_justification` - The PRs contain too many seemingly arbitrary changes (name changes, refactoring) 
  without giving sufficient justification as to why the changes make things better, safer or faster.
* `CR-docs` - Your PR would be improved by including documentation (docstrings, module documentation and/or judicious
  comments).
* `CR-needs_rfc` - This PR suggests a significant enough change to require a formal RFC.

### Categorisation (C)

> Describes the type of PR or issue. E.g.

Reviewer 2: Is this an example list, therefore the _e.g._?

* `C-Consensus_breaking` - This PR changes consensus rules and would require a hard-fork to implement.
* `C-Documentation` - This PR is exclusively or dominantly adding to documentation. 
* `C-RFC` - This PR introduces or contributes to an RFC.
* `C-tests` - This PR exclusively adds new test cases.
* `C-benchmark` - This PR exclusively adds or fixes benchmark code.
* `C-formatting` - This PR is exclusively formatting related, e.g. the result of running `cargo fmt`. This tag
  should seldom be applied since the CI process already enforces Clippy and formatting compliance, but it is added
  for completeness.
* `C-tech_debt` - The PR tidies up technical debt. It will typically be attached to an issue carrying the same label.
* `C-performance` - The PR adds no new functionality but improves performance. Benchmarks will be included.
* `C-bug` - The PR fixes a bug, typically associated with an issue.

> * `C-tracking_isse` - This is a tracking issue for an RFC implementation.

Reviewer 2: Will this also be used for adding a features?

### Area (A)

Describes the functional area of the code the PR or issue covers predominantly. E.g.

* `A-base_node`
* `A-comms`
* `A-wallet`

> * `A-constitutions`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* `A-contracts`
```

Maybe better as we've very much centered around the idea the contract contains a constitution, definition, etc. Constitution feels very specific.

### Process-related (P)

"P" labels are process-related and used to identify where we are in the CI code/review/merge process. They are often
managed by the CI bots. E.g.

* `P-waiting_on_author` - The approval process is paused pending action from the PR author.
* `P-waiting_on_reviewer` - The approval process is paused pending action from a reviewer.
* `P-approved` - The PR has been approved and will be merged soon. 
* `P-queued_for_merge` - The PR is being merged by the CI process.

### Experience level (E)

These labels indicate the level or type of experience needed to address. Examples:

* `E-good_first_issue`
* `E-cryptographer`
* `E-medium`

> * `E-expert`

Reviewer 4: Is this in any particular order? I'd think good_first_issue and cryptographer would be the opposite ends of the spectrum.

Author: We hold cryptographers and first-time contributors in equally high esteem :)

They're not really in order, and not even linear necessarily (medium cryptographer required?)
